WIP: How to manually replace failed control-plane node documentation (#779)
kubermatic/kubeone: docs/manual-cluster-repair.md

> # Manual cluster repair

Reviewer: I thought about this a little bit more and another option that comes to my mind is to restructure the document. There are cases besides non-functioning etcd in which you might want to rotate your control plane node to resolve the problem. What comes to my mind is to call this document `Cluster Troubleshooting` for instance, and structure it such as:

* Introduction (what we have right now; maybe a couple of improvements)
* Components troubleshooting. A few examples:
  * `kubectl get nodes`. If needed `kubectl describe` or rotate if it is a worker node.
  * `kubectl get pods -n kube-system`
  * `kubectl logs` and consider the upstream documentation if needed (eventually post a few links)
  * Check `etcd` as already described
* If `etcd` is the problem or rotating would help, proceed to rotate.

All those points might be obvious, but having a sort of checklist can help users to understand what's going on before taking the action. Right now, we are tied to a broken `etcd`, but I think this document can be used for many other cases. :slightly_smiling_face:

> # Manual cluster repair

Author: >There are cases besides non-functioning etcd in which you might want to rotate your control plane node to resolve the problem.

Rotate the node for whatever reason == repair etcd cluster + control plane components. Exactly what this doc is about.

When one of the control-plane nodes fails, it's necessary to restore it back as

> fast as possible to avoid loosing ETCD quorum and blocking all kubeapi-server

Author: 👍

operations.

This is a guide on how to restore you cluster back to the normal state.

> ## One dead control-plane instance

Author: But this section (and whole doc) is not about workers, it's about control-plane. machine-controller is mentioned only for the reason to now let people thing that MC will somehow solve the control-plane issue.

> ## One dead control-plane instance

Reviewer: That makes sense, but I'd drop the part mentioning that it will automatically recreate because the user needs to trigger rotation manually.

If you are running KubeOne cluster with machine-controller enabled, it will

> automatically recreate your failed worker nodes. But it can happen that

Author: Wrong wording again, I'd replace nodes -> instances.

cloud-instance with control-plane node fails.

In this document we will cover the case when 1 (out of 3 in total) control-plane
node is lost.

> ### Remove dead ETCD member

Author: The assumption is: at this point there is no etcd nor its host VM instance. All gone for IaaS provider failure. Or was removed manually from the cloud provider console (to get rid of malfunctioning instance).

Even when one ETCD member is physically (and abruptly) removed, ETCD-ring still
hopes it might return back online. Unfortunately this is not our case and we
need to let ETCD-ring know that dead ETCD member is dead forever.

Exec into the shell of the alive ETCD container:
```bash
kubectl -n kube-system exec -it ETCD-<ALIVE-HOSTNAME> sh
```

Setup client TLS authentication:
```bash
export ETCDCTL_API=3
export ETCDCTL_CACERT=/etc/kubernetes/pki/ETCD/ca.crt
export ETCDCTL_CERT=/etc/kubernetes/pki/ETCD/healthcheck-client.crt
export ETCDCTL_KEY=/etc/kubernetes/pki/ETCD/healthcheck-client.key
```

Retrieve currently known members list (example output):
```bash
etcdctl member list
2ce40012b4b4e4e6, started, ip-172-31-153-216.eu-west-3.compute.internal, https://172.31.153.216:2380, https://172.31.153.216:2379, false
2e39cf93b81fb7ed, started, ip-172-31-153-246.eu-west-3.compute.internal, https://172.31.153.246:2380, https://172.31.153.246:2379, false

> 6713c8f2e74fb553, started, ip-172-31-153-235.eu-west-3.compute.internal, https://172.31.153.235:2380, https://172.31.153.235:2379, false

Author: 👍

```

We are going to need an ID of the dead ETCD member. To locate it, please check
(by IP for example, or hostnames) your online instances list and find one from
the list above, that is not online anymore.

Locate and delete dead ETCD member:
```bash
etcdctl member remove 6713c8f2e74fb553
Member 6713c8f2e74fb553 removed from cluster 4ec111e0dee094c3
```

Exit the ETCD pod shell.

### Recreate failed instance
Assuming you've used Terraform to provision your cloud infrastructure, use
`terraform apply` to restore cloud infrastructure to the declared state, i.e. 3
control-plane instances for HA clusters.

From your local machine:
```bash
terraform apply

> ```

Reviewer: Don't you need to delete an instance manually before running `terraform apply`? As long as the cloud instance exists, `terraform apply` wouldn't do anything.

Save the terraform JSON output to the file:
```bash
terraform output -json > tfout.json
```

### What is Leader instance
In KubeOne the Leader instance is the first instance from the `Hosts` (or
`kubeone_hosts` in Terraform output) list. This instance will be used to "init"

> the cluster.

Reviewer: Maybe we should be a little bit more specific here when we say "init". Basically, the most important thing is syncing certs, i.e. KubeOne will pick up certs and needed config from the leader.

Author: Yeah, that's what I've tried to express here. The importance of Leader VM.

Reviewer: Then I'd say something along:
```
The leader instance is used as a source for certificates and configuration files, so it must have all those files present.
```

If Leader instance has failed, we can reorder `Hosts` list (or `kubeone_hosts`
in Terraform output), and place a healthy instance as first one. 

Let's review Terraform case.

Locate the `Leader` node.
```bash
jq '.kubeone_hosts.value.control_plane.hostnames' < tfout.json
[
  "ip-172-31-153-222.eu-west-3.compute.internal",
  "ip-172-31-153-228.eu-west-3.compute.internal",
  "ip-172-31-153-246.eu-west-3.compute.internal"
]

jq '.kubeone_hosts.value.control_plane.private_address' < tfout.json
[
  "172.31.153.222",
  "172.31.153.228",
  "172.31.153.246"
]
```

In case when first instance from those lists has failed, edit JSON file directy,
and reorder it.

Example how to reorder:
```bash
jq '.kubeone_hosts.value.control_plane.hostnames' < tfout.json
[
  "ip-172-31-153-228.eu-west-3.compute.internal",
  "ip-172-31-153-222.eu-west-3.compute.internal",
  "ip-172-31-153-246.eu-west-3.compute.internal"
]

> jq '.kubeone_hosts.value.control_plane.private_address' < tfout.json

Reviewer: Public addresses are also important for non-AWS setup, so we should mention them.

[
  "172.31.153.228",
  "172.31.153.222",
  "172.31.153.246"
]
```

### Join new control-plane node back to the cluster
`kubeone install` will install kubernetes dependencies to the freshly created
instance and join it back to the cluster as one of the control plane nodes.

```bash
kubeone install -v config.yaml -t tfout.json
```

> 

Reviewer: I'd say something along you can run `kubectl get nodes -o wide` to check is the instance up and running.

## Mulpiple dead control-plane instances

> In this case, you'd need to recreate cluster from the backup of ETCD.

Reviewer: I'd move this above after diagnosing which member is dead, e.g. if you have multiple dead members, please follow another guide that's coming up soon.

```

Exit the etcd pod shell.

### Recreate failed instance
Assuming you've used Terraform to provision your cloud infrastructure, use
`terraform apply` to restore cloud infrastructure to the declared state, i.e. 3
control-plane instances for HA clusters.

From your local machine:
```bash
terraform apply
```

Save the terraform JSON output to the file:
```bash
terraform output -json > tfout.json
```

### What is Leader instance
In KubeOne the Leader instance is the first instance from the `Hosts` (or
`kubeone_hosts` in Terraform output) list. This instance will be used to "init"
the cluster.

If Leader instance has failed, we can reorder `Hosts` list (or `kubeone_hosts`
in Terraform output), and place a healthy instance as first one. 

Let's review Terraform case.

Locate the `Leader` node.
```bash
jq '.kubeone_hosts.value.control_plane.hostnames' < tfout.json
[
  "ip-172-31-153-222.eu-west-3.compute.internal",
  "ip-172-31-153-228.eu-west-3.compute.internal",
  "ip-172-31-153-246.eu-west-3.compute.internal"
]

jq '.kubeone_hosts.value.control_plane.private_address' < tfout.json
[
  "172.31.153.222",
  "172.31.153.228",
  "172.31.153.246"
]
```

> In case when first instance from those lists has failed, edit JSON file directy,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case when the first instance from those lists has failed, edit JSON file directly,
```

and reorder it.

Example how to reorder:
```bash
jq '.kubeone_hosts.value.control_plane.hostnames' < tfout.json
[
  "ip-172-31-153-228.eu-west-3.compute.internal",
  "ip-172-31-153-222.eu-west-3.compute.internal",
  "ip-172-31-153-246.eu-west-3.compute.internal"
]

jq '.kubeone_hosts.value.control_plane.private_address' < tfout.json
[
  "172.31.153.228",
  "172.31.153.222",
  "172.31.153.246"
]
```

### Join new control-plane node back to the cluster
`kubeone install` will install kubernetes dependencies to the freshly created
instance and join it back to the cluster as one of the control plane nodes.

```bash
kubeone install -v config.yaml -t tfout.json
```

> ## Mulpiple dead control-plane instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multiple dead control-plane instances
```
